Add docs about container security defaults and enforcement (#116)
XenitAB/xenitab.github.io: docs/xks/developer-guide/container-security.md

---
id: container-security
title: Container Security
---

> Container security is a critical component of the framework. Kubernetes in it's vanilla form is by design open, but that also means that to a certain extent Kuberentes is insecure. In a multi tenant context this statement hold even more truth. Container security in Kubernetes can be seen from two different perspectives. One is protecting the cluster from being exploited by maliciously configured Pods. The other is mitigating the attack surface of an application in a cluster. Sometimes these two perspectives are one and the same. XKF tries to balance between enforcing good security practices by default while allowing for developer flexibility. For this reason some security measures are required while others are merely recommendations to help developers achieve a higher security standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Container security is a critical component of the framework. Kubernetes in its vanilla form is by design open, but that also means that to a certain extent Kuberentes is insecure. In a multi-tenant context this statement holds even more truth. Container security in Kubernetes can be seen from two different perspectives. One is protecting the cluster from being exploited by maliciously configured Pods. The other is mitigating the attack surface of an application in a cluster. Sometimes these two perspectives are one and the same. XKF tries to balance between enforcing good security practices by default while allowing for developer flexibility. For this reason some security measures are required while others are merely recommendations to help developers achieve a higher security standard.
```

## Default Security Context

All Pods in the cluster will have a default security context enforced. Any default security context setting which has not been configured properly when applying the Pod to the cluster will be automatically set before the Pod is created. No action has to be taken from the end user but it is important to be aware that the Pod applied may not be identical to the Pod created and what these settings mean. 

The Pod below is the most basic yet valid Pod which can be applied to a Kubernetes.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:

>     - name: nginx

Reviewer: nginx happens to be a maybe not so good example - as you cannot run the pod above in XKF (although you can with the modifications below). Maybe that should be pointed out (or maybe not, it might be too on the nose).

      image: nginx:1.14.2
```

When applied to an XKF Kubernetes cluster the following mutations occur.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      securityContext:
        readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
        allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
        capabilities:
          drop:
            - NET_RAW
            - CAP_SYS
```

### Read Only Root Filesystem

This setting is the one that may have the largest impact on a deployed application if it is expected to write to the file system. Containers may be ephemeral but that does not mean that certain applications may still want to write temporary files. Enabling read only root filesystem blocks the container from writing to its filesystem by default. The reasoning for this is that if an attacker is able to gain access to a container the attacker will not be able to modify any files or add any additional binaries to the container.

> Of course there is a solution for applications that still do want to write to the filesystem. The solution is to create a [`emptyDir`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir) volume and mount it to the directory to which files should be written. In the example below the `emptyDir` volume `tmp` is mounted to the path `/tmp` making it possible to write files to the directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course there is a solution for applications that still do want to write to the filesystem. The solution is to create an [`emptyDir`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir) volume and mount it to the directory to which files should be written. In the example below the `emptyDir` volume `tmp` is mounted to the path `/tmp` making it possible to write files to the directory.
```

> Of course there is a solution for applications that still do want to write to the filesystem. The solution is to create a [`emptyDir`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir) volume and mount it to the directory to which files should be written. In the example below the `emptyDir` volume `tmp` is mounted to the path `/tmp` making it possible to write files to the directory.

Reviewer 2: Since we talk about best practices in general I also think that we should mention the max resource for emptyDir.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#setting-requests-and-limits-for-local-ephemeral-storage

```
spec.containers[].resources.limits.ephemeral-storage
spec.containers[].resources.requests.ephemeral-storage
```

You don't have to provide it but it's good to think about if you are using emptyDir as scratch disk.

Author: This should be added to the scheduling docs instead with the other resources.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      securityContext:
        readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
        allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
        capabilities:
          drop:
            - NET_RAW
            - CAP_SYS_ADMIN
      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /tmp
          name: tmp
  volumes:
    - emptyDir: {}
      name: tmp
```

### Allow Privilege Escalation

> Disabling privilege escalation for all Pods is critical for applications to to gain greater access to the Node than they need to. This setting will probably never affect most applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disabling privilege escalation for all Pods is critical for applications to not gain greater access to the Node than they need to. This setting will probably never affect most applications.
```

### Dropped Capabilities

Linux capabilities are certain root permissions that can be given to containers without giving root access. Certain capabilities should never be given to a container as they would give too much access, for this reason they are always dropped.

> * `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` - Is the same as making the container root, would allow a container to escalate privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` - Is the same as making the container root, as it would allow a container to escalate privileges.
```

* `NET_RAW` - Allows a container to craft raw network packets which can be exploited for malicious actions.

## Pod Constraints

> In addition to the default security context there are certain configuration settings which are not allowed in XKF. They have a lower impact on end users as they are opted into, but they are good to be aware of and can explain why a Pods creation may be blocked by the cluster. The enforcement is done before the Pod is created, this means that a Deployment may be allowed to be created but the Pods that result will not, causing a Deployment to always have zero replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the default security context there are certain configuration settings which are not allowed in XKF. They have a lower impact on end users as they are opted into, but they are good to be aware of and can explain why a Pod's creation may be blocked by the cluster. The enforcement is done before the Pod is created, this means that a Deployment may be allowed to be created but the Pods that result from this will not, causing a Deployment to always have zero replicas.
```

> In addition to the default security context there are certain configuration settings which are not allowed in XKF. They have a lower impact on end users as they are opted into, but they are good to be aware of and can explain why a Pods creation may be blocked by the cluster. The enforcement is done before the Pod is created, this means that a Deployment may be allowed to be created but the Pods that result will not, causing a Deployment to always have zero replicas.

Reviewer 2: "causing a Deployment to always have zero replicas." I know that we are not rewriting the k8s docs but should we find a good link that explain debugging deployments and have that a link to help the developers to understand why there deployment isn't starting a new pod.

Author: Could not find a good link, do you have one? Its difficult moving between rewriting docs and adding our own oppinion about things.

### Host Namespaces

Being able to share process IDs or memory between a container and a host means that the container would in theory have access to the host or any containers also running on the host. Setting `hostPID` or `hostIPC` to `true` would allow for this to happen. For this reason that is not allowed.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  hostPID: true

>   hostIPC: true

Reviewer: You say this is not allowed, yet your examples above say `true` whereas in other examples you show the actual config. Did you mean `false` here?

(see further examples of similar issues below)

```

### Host Networking

> Allowing a Pod access to the host network namespace would mean giving it access to the hosts loopback device and enable it to listen to the network traffic of all Pods on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allowing a Pod access to the host network namespace would mean giving it access to the host's loopback device and enable it to listen to the network traffic of all Pods on the host.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  hostNetwork: true
```

> Using a host port for a Pods container will result in binding that hosts port to the container port. This would expose the container to the network outside of the cluster. This can cause issues in cases where the ports have to be unique, and is generally a feature that is not needed in XKF which is my it is not allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a host port for a Pod's container will result in binding that hosts port to the container port. This would expose the container to the network outside of the cluster. This can cause issues in cases where the ports have to be unique, and is generally a feature that is not needed in XKF, which is why it is not allowed.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  containers:
    - ports:
        - hostPort: 10902
```

### Privileged Containers

> Privileged containers have root capabilities on the host machine and are there for not allowed in XKF. There would be no separation between the container and the host if this setting were to be allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Privileged containers have root capabilities on the host machine and are therefore not allowed in XKF. There would be no separation between the container and the host if this setting were to be allowed.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  containers:
    - securityContext:

>         privileged: true

Reviewer 2: I'm 99% sure this should be false and not true.
```
➜ k explain pod.spec.containers.securityContext.privileged  
KIND:     Pod
VERSION:  v1

FIELD:    privileged <boolean>

DESCRIPTION:
     Run container in privileged mode. Processes in privileged containers are
     essentially equivalent to root on the host. Defaults to false.
```

Author: The examples are meant to show what is not allowed, maybe that is not totally not clear.

```

### Capabilities

> As stated in the default security context section certain capabilities will always be dropped. It is however also possible to grant capabilities to a Pod. There for all Pods that attempt to add extra capabilities are not allowed, as it could lead to privilege escalation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As stated in the default security context section certain capabilities will always be dropped. It is however also possible to grant capabilities to a Pod. Therefore any Pods that attempt to add extra capabilities are not allowed, as it could lead to privilege escalation.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:
  containers:
    - securityContext:
        capabilities:
          add:
            - NEW_RAW
```

### Proc Mount

> There are certain files in the `/proc` directory that may be sensitive is exposed to a container. By default the container runtime will apply a filter the files mounted to the container from the directory, so opting out of it is not allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are certain files in the `/proc` directory that may be sensitive if exposed to a container. By default the container runtime will apply a filter to the files mounted to the container from the directory, so opting out of it is not allowed.
```

With the knowledge that the mitigation for future container vulnerabilities is so simple it would be lazy not to take the precautionary steps. One method to change the user used to run the container is to do it at the image source. It is as simple as changing the user. Some testing may have to be done initially if the applications needs to read files which have different permissions. The example below sets both the user and group to `65534` which is an existing user called `nouser`.

```Dockerfile
USER 65534:65534
```

> Another solution is to make changes to the Pod so that a different user is used when running. The user id and group id used can be set in the Pods security context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another solution is to make changes to the Pod so that a different user is used when running. The user id and group id used can be set in the Pod's security context.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: app
spec:

>   securityContext:

Author: runAsNonRoot: true

    runAsUser: 65534
    runAsGroup: 65534

> ```

Author: Not sure about all these recommendations. Would love others input so that we get this right for the future when this becomes enforced.

Reviewer 2: I think it's good ideas. The problem is how should you handle things like node that run on USER 1000 by default on most images.
And my guess is that node would actually get issues if you tried to run this config with `runAsUser`.
I think this is a okay start but I think we need to give some example and maybe say that setting user 1000 is better then not setting it all.
